we know you horror loving peeps love to
scream that's exactly why the horror
film genre is so freaking popular but
even if you love monsters and gore you
won't want to watch the movies on this
list alone
unless you want to sit up all night with
the lights on be smart and grab a friend
before watching any of these
number 10 the blair witch project
this classic low-budget indie movie
sparked the popularity of found footage
horror when it was shown at the sundance
film festival it was marketed as footage
recovered from the film crew's equipment
and the actors were supposedly missing
or dead the plot follows a group of film
students setting out into the black
hills forest to make a documentary about
the legend of the blair witch the slow
tense build up and the commitment to
realism make this one hard to watch on
your own
at 9. the shining
the shining is known as one of the
greatest and most influential horror
films ever made
based on the stephen king book of the
same name that follows the tauren's
family as they winter in the historic
overlook hotel the patriarch jack
nicholson acting as caretaker his young
son danny has a psychic ability called
the shining which allows him to see the
many ghosts that also inhabit the hotel
over the course of the film jack's slow
breakdown is harrowing to watch
the forces at work in the hotel do a
number on his sanity and turn him
against his own family
despite king's criticisms over the
differences between the film and the
book the shining remains one of the most
terrifying horror movies ever
hate halloween in a genre full of
sequels and adaptations sometimes you
need to go back to one of the all-time
classics
one of the films that invented many
themes still utilized today the 1978
john carpenter slasher halloween is just
the place to start
featuring jamie lee curtis in her film
debut it tells the story of killer
michael myers returning to his hometown
on halloween night and stalking a group
of teens
it spawned a massive franchise that
frequently took dives into the
ridiculous but the first movie is still
a frightening and haunting experience
at seven
it follows
every now and then the genre delivers us
something original and unexpected it
follows has a surreal dreamlike quality
to it that only serves to heighten the
sense of unease the plot follows a
college student named jay who starts
being pursued by a supernatural creature
after a sexual encounter with her new
boyfriend the creature which only jay
can see takes on many different human
appearances and is always approaching an
unsettling walk
the terror of the unknown and the
implacable march of death makes it a
frightening experience even in a group
let alone braving it on your own
6. the conjuring as the first film in
the popular conjuring universe and
directed by prolific horror director
james wan the conjuring is considered by
many to be one of the best horror movies
since the exorcist
it's based on the lives of real-life
paranormal investigators ed and lorraine
warren and draws inspiration from
hauntings they've researched
the series begins with the warrens
coming to the assistance of the parent
family who are experiencing disturbing
supernatural events in their rhode
island farmhouse the film was widely
praised for its use of exceptional
cinematography and classic but effective
scares he doesn't try to reinvent the
genre but instead refines it down to a
terrifying good time
at number 5 we have the thing
another john carpenter movie makes the
list what can we say the man's good at
scaring us the thing is iconic for its
commitment to practical special effects
that make the body horror visceral and
realistic
however when it was first released it
was almost universally hated described
by many as instant junk
little did they know it would come to be
one of the most well-regarded horror
movies of all time inspiring a variety
of spin-offs and merchandise the movie
expertly crafts a sense of paranoia
characters are completely cut off from
the outside world and don't know which
of their companions might be a monster
in disguise
this film is terrifying to watch alone
but it might be just as scary to watch
with others
make sure to check out my full play by
play recap of the thing
link is in the description
four hereditary
everyone knows how good ari astr's debut
masterpiece hereditary is both for its
dread inducing plot and its incredible
acting
it features a family being hunted by a
demon after the death of their matriarch
grandma ellen but the horror isn't just
limited to the supernatural elements
what hereditary does really well is make
you feel the tragedy of the family's
situation
it shows how grief and lack of support
can grind people down and makes them
vulnerable to evil the sense of dread
never lets up and you might have to
sleep with the lights on after the
credits roll
i'm being serious
three the descent
the descent actually first premiered at
the edinburgh horror film festival dead
by dawn but has exploded in popularity
from this humble beginning the film
tells the story of a group of women
going caving together on vacation and it
quickly deteriorates into a struggle for
survival against the creatures that call
the cave home
it was critically praised for its
creature design horrifying imagery this
dark claustrophobic nightmare will make
you grateful you're safe in your own
home
grabbing the second spot is lake mungo
if this were a list of insanely
underrated horror films like mumbo would
be at the very top
it's an australian psychological horror
that uses the mockumentary style to tell
the story of a family's experiences
following the death of their daughter
they cast low profile actors and didn't
provide any written dialogue instead
instructing them to improvise to
maintain the illusion of authenticity
the film is a finely detailed
exploration of grief and saying too much
would ruin it but maybe it would be wise
to only watch it during the day
now for the top of our list grabbing
spot one is hush
hush is guaranteed to make you feel
unsafe in your own home
it portrays a deafening woman named
maddie as she's being tormented by a
masked killer the isolated woodland home
it was dropped without advertisement at
the 2015 toronto international film
festival and met with overwhelming
positive reviews the performances of the
two leads really sells the experience
and it's a more creative premise than
other modern slasher movies
after watching this you'll be
questioning every little sound in your
house while trying to fall asleep
thanks for watching hope you enjoyed the
video make sure to comment below and
don't forget to smash the like button
also if you like this video and want to
see more make sure you subscribe to the
channel
see you soon